docs: Added the docs for GettingStartedWithTests (#16314)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/getting-started/getting-started-tests.md

---

> uid: Uno.Authoring.Tests

Reviewer: Markdown linting adjustments needed for this file
![image](https://github.com/unoplatform/uno/assets/16295702/8d7a7a6b-ffc9-4d58-85cc-fbbe524598fb)

---
# How-To: Creating an application with tests
 
This tutorial will walk through how to create an Uno application with tests.

> [!NOTE]

> > Make sure to setup your environment first by [following our instructions](xref:Uno.GetStarted.vs2022).

Reviewer 2: I would love to see reference to this [(Wizard doc regarding tests)](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/getting-started/wizard/using-wizard.html#10-testing) on this page, maybe as note, so that people can know what they need to do to create a solution with tests.

@agneszitte @vatsashah45

Reviewer 2: Nick already agreed on this here https://github.com/unoplatform/uno/pull/16314#discussion_r1567685830

  
## 1. Exploring the Solution
 
The generated solution will contain:
 
* *MyProjectName* - for application logic, and other constructs like view models and services, as well as the pages, controls, and other views that make up the UI of the application.
* *MyProjectName.Tests* and *MyProjectName.UI.Tests* - for writing unit and UI tests respectively.
 
![The structure of the generated solution](Assets/ProjectStructure-Tests-min.png)
 
## 2. Running the Application
 
* Select a target from the drop-down as pictured below
 
    ![A screenshot of the generated targets](Assets/GeneratedTargets-min.png)
 
* Click the "play" button, or press F5 to start debugging. The project will be compiled and deployed based on the target platform. For more detailed instructions specific to each platform, refer to the [Debug the App](xref:Uno.GettingStarted.CreateAnApp.VS2022#debug-the-app) documentation.
 
## 3. Running the Unit Tests
 
* Right click the project inside Tests\\MyProjectName.Tests to open the context menu
 

> * Select *Run Tests*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the context menu that appears, select *Run Tests*.
```

 
   The application will be compiled and the test cases will run.
 
> [!TIP]
> If the 'Run Tests' menu item doesn't exist, you need to Rebuild the solution to get Visual Studio to detect the available tests.
 
## 4. Running the UI tests
 

> * As demonstrated on step 3, select the **WebAssembly** target from the drop-down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* As demonstrated on step 2, select the **MyProjectName (WebAssembly)** target from the drop-down.
```

 
* Press Ctrl + F5 to start the WASM project without debugging.
 
* Once the application is compiled, it will launch inside your default browser. Take note of the URL which should look something like this: https://localhost:5000/Main
 

> * Find the project *Tests\\MyProjectName.UI.Tests* and locate the *Constants.cs* file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* In the Solution Explorer, go to the *Tests* folder, open the `MyProjectName.UI.Tests` project, and locate the Constants.cs file.
```

 
* Open *Constants.cs* and update the WebAssemblyDefaultUri constant.
 
    It should appear similar to this:
 
    ```cs
    public readonly static string WebAssemblyDefaultUri = "https://localhost:5000/";
    ```
 

> * Go back to the project *Tests\\MyProjectName.UI.Tests* and right click. Then, *Run Tests*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Go back to the Solution Explorer, navigate to the *Tests* folder, right-click on the `MyProjectName.UI.Tests` project, and then select *Run Tests*.
```
